---
Title: Learning new stuff is fun

Slug: learning-new-stuff-is-fun

Date: 2021-05-20

Description: Talk about different technologies and ideas that are around my mind

Tags: blog, framework, golang, programming, vue, rust, docker, drone, cicd, gardening

Category: software
---

Hello there! ðŸ‘‹

I have not writen anything in the blog since I made it, it does not mean that I have abandoned the
blog. Anyway, these past months have been interesting in different ways.

Nowadays everything is done making use of a web application in any way, making use of APIs or a
desktop application that was exported from web or whatever. I have been tinkering with APIs and
learning more about them.


Due to this, I made some silly APIs using Node or Typescript, I am not a big fan of Javascript due
to different reasons that I am not going to talk about on here, however, I fell in love with Golang
since the very first moment I started to read and do some programming with it. 


Go is a very interesting language, the syntax is very similar to C but it does not feel too verbose.
The package manager, go modules, is really simple to use and does not depend on a centralized
service like npm.
Some of the frameworks and libraries are still young, but they are quite powerful. Another thing
that I really like about Go are the built-in tools for linting, like go fmt. However, there are
other tools like gosec, golangci-lint or gow that I use constantly. Actually, the first two tools I
mentioned are in my CI pipelines.


The default http library is really good, it lacks a router, but with gorilla/mux you can do a lot of
things with it. Integrating metrics tools like prometheus is really simple as well. There are
frameworks like GinGonic or Fiber that are very simple to use and do a lot of stuff for you, but the
moment you need to do something specific, like serving static content, is really hard and usually
the middlewares not work at all. Maybe I just was unlucky.


The best about Go, appart of its speed, is the fact that Docker Images end up being really really small 
and they do not consume RAM at all and the build speed is fast.


Go is not the only technology that I have been using lately, at the beginning of this post I said
that I dislike javascript, I was talking about using javascript for backend development, however for
frontend is a must use. Vue is the best and easiest to use frontend framework that I have seen, I
tried React and Angular and I hated them, Angular was too complex and React was weird. Vue is simple
and makes sense since the first moment you use it. I have some private projects that involve the use
of web UI so, I will probably end up using it more


About other programming languages, I decided to learn Rust, I have seen many people on the internet
talking about how good it is, how dev-friendly it is and many advantages more so... why not? At
first, I noticed that the learning courve is a bit steep. Creating a Rust project is very easy with
Cargo, as well as managing its dependencies.


So, what am i going to keep doing for now? I want to get more experience with Rust and also I would
like to learn more about a GNU/Linux distribution that has caught my attention, NixOS. 


Thanks for reading and have a lovely day! :smile:
